# HPPDxNeuropsych
This repository contains the R-Code used in a study that compared cognitive performance in patients with hallucinogen persisting perception disorder vs. helathy controls.


Abstract: 
Although psychedelic drugs are generally considered physiologically safe (Byock, 2018; Johnson et al., 2008; Nichols, 2016; Schlag et al., 2022), if applied in the wrong set and/or setting there are psychological risks to be considered (Bender & Hellerstein, 2022; Simonsson et al., 2023). One such instance is Hallucinogen Persisting Perception Disorder (HPPD), a disorder where individuals who have used psychedelic drugs experience persistent visual distortions long after the drug's effects have worn off (Vis et al., 2021). To date there has not been a quantitative examination of cognitive performance in HPPD patients.
	In this study, we aimed to address this research gap by investigating the neuropsychological differences between 9 HPPD cases and 9 demographically matched healthy controls with a comparable history of psychedelic use. Our findings revealed significant differences in performances between the groups in the Ray Osterrieth Complex Figure Task (copy), as well as in the perseverative responses of the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test and the Tower of London test. However, further analysis indicated that the significant results from the first two tasks could be attributed to methodological biases, leaving only the results from the Tower of London test as reliable indicators of potential cognitive differences between the groups.
	The qualitative component of our study provided valuable insights into the development of the disorder and the symptoms experienced by individuals with HPPD. Despite the limitations of our small sample size, our findings contribute to the existing literature and provide inspiration for future research in this area.
